# DSCI Final Project: Pew's National Survey of Latinos (2018)
### Introduction
Latinx people make up a significant portion of the population of the United States and that percentage has been consistently grown for decades. These days, Latinx people are the US's second largest racial/ethnic group. Latinx people also come from a variety of different cultural backgrounds despite belonging to an overarching umbrella term, whether that is informed by their (or their family's) country of origin or how long their family has lived in the United States, among other factors. Naturally, this means that there is immense variation in this population: age, socioeconomic status, political views, and more. I am interested in better understanding the diversity of this demographic population, in particular because I am part of it. 

The 2018 National Survey of Latinos was conducted between July 26, 2018 and September 9, 2018 by the Pew Research Center to understand the views of the US's Latinx population. The survey was conducted via telephone in both English and Spanish and asked questions of Latinx adults living in the United States. This data was collected during the Trump administration, and President Trump was well known, both during his campaign and his presidency, for being outspoken about and representing a conservative stance on immigration, particularly towards Latinx immigrants. I am curious by how different variables within the Latinx community, specifically their citizenship status, English language proficiency (which may indicate their ability to assimilate within US culture), and experiences of discrimination based on being Latinx may predict participants' political stances.

#### Predictors and Outcome Variables
I investigated two outcome variables: the degree to which participants had a negative opinion of Trump and the degree to which participants had a conservative immigration policy stance. Models to predict each of these outcome variables were created using three predictor variables: the citizenship status of participants, the participants' English language proficiency, and the participants' experiences of discrimination. How these variables were derived from the data will be elaborated upon under the univariate analysis section. 

I had different hypotheses for the two outcome variables:

• [Negative] Opinion of Trump: I expect those who were naturalized citizens and non-citizens to have more negative opinions of Trump relative to those who are natural born citizens. I expect those with without English proficiency to have more negative opinions of Trump because Trump is known for having xenophobic stances. I expect those with greater experiences of discrimination to have a greater negative opinion of Trump because Trump has been known for making comments that may encourage discrimination against Latinx immigrants and descendants. 

• [Conservative] Immigration Policy Stance: I anticipate those who are naturalized citizens and non-citizens to have less conservative immigration policy stances and than natural born citizens because they are immigrants. I anticipate those who are not proficient in English to have less conservative immigration policy stances because they are more likely to be immigrants or to be closely tied to them. Further, I anticipate those with higher experiences of discrimination to have a less conservative immigration policy stance. 

### Regression Model: [Negative] Opinion of Trump
For the outcome variable [negative] opinion of Trump, I compared three models. The first model using just the three predictor variables had an r-squared value of 0.05131, meaning that it accounted for about 5.13% of variation in scores regarding participants' opinion of Trump. According to Cohen’s guide, this is a small-medium effect size (between 1% and 9%). The model overall had a p-value of 1.329e-13 and an AIC score of 2713. Since opinion of Trump is left skewed and experiences of discrimination is right skewed, another model was made, replacing opinion of Trump with the natural log of reflected opinion of Trump and by using the natural log of experiences of discrimination. These transformations improved the AIC score from 2713.842 to 1385.622. A third model removed language score as a predictor variable because it was not a significant difference between being and not being proficient in English in either the first (p = 0.65525) or second (0.81067) models. The reduced model only slightly improved the model's AIC score (from 1385.622 to 1383.627), which suggests that the models are not reliably different. Since the third model is the most parsimonious (due to the exclusion of language) and had the best AIC score, this is the model I will elaborate on in this analysis. 

The model had an r-squared value of 0.05079, meaning that it accounted for about 5.079% of variation in scores regarding participants' opinion of Trump (p = 5.028e-14). According to Cohen’s guide, this is a small-medium effect size (between 1% and 9%). The intercept was significant, indicating that when a participant is a natural born citizen and the natural log of experiences of discrimination score is 0 then the natural log of the participant's reflected opinion of Trump score is predicted to be 0.40760 (p < 2e-16). Thus, this model predicts that by default – natural born citizens without experiences of discrimination, participants tend not to have a very favorable opinion of Trump. When all else is held constant, an increase of 1 in the natural log of experiences of discrimination score is expected to produce a 0.180587 decrease in the natural log of the reflected opinion of Trump (p = 4.23e-12), indicating that the model predicts increased experiences of discrimination will increase negative opinions of Trump. When all else is held constant, a change from a participant being a natural born citizen to being a naturalized citizen is anticipated to produce a 0.10089 decrease in the natural log of the reflected opinion of Trump (p = 0.00169) and a change from a natural born citizen to being a non-citizen is anticipated to produce a 0.09566 decrease in the natural log of the reflected opinion of Trump (p = 0.00143). Thus, the model predicts that not being a natural born citizen will increase one's negative opinion of Trump.

#### Analysis of Plots of Fit
The Residuals vs. Fitted showed that the residuals appeared to be more positive than negative, suggesting a slight deviation from the assumptions of Mean of Residuals is ~0 and Constant Variability. The Normal Q-Q suggested some deviation from the assumption that Residuals are Nearly Normal – there were light right and left tails, and deviations both above and below the 45° line in the center. In the Scale-Location plot, the line was not very flat and the points were not equally spread, also suggesting some deviation from the assumption of Constant Variability. The Residuals vs. Leverage plot showed no data points beyond Cook’s distance, indicating that that assumption of No Bad (high leverage) Outliers was met. As a result, no trimming and Winsorizing of the data was attempted to improve the model. Overall, however, this model had difficulty meeting the assumptions of linear regression.

### Regression Model: [Conservative] Immigration Policy Stance 
For the outcome variable [conservative] immigration policy stance, I compared three models. The first model using just the three predictor variables had an r-squared value of 0.08266, meaning that it accounted for about 8.266% of variation in scores regarding participants' immigration policy stance. According to Cohen’s guide, this is approaching a medium effect size (~9%). The model overall had a p-value of < 2.2e-16 and an AIC score of 2041.644. Since both immigration policy stance and experiences of discrimination are right skewed, another model was made, replacing immigration policy stance with the natural log of immigration policy stance and by using the natural log of experiences of discrimination. These transformations improved the AIC score from 2041.644 to 845.8828. A third model removed language score as a predictor variable because it was not a significant difference between being and not being proficient in English in either the first (p = 0.0991) or second (0.0587) models. The reduced model had a slightly worse AIC score (from 845.8828 to 847.4731), but the scores are so similar that the models are likely not reliably different. Thus, since the third model contains only significant variables, this is the model I will elaborate on in this analysis. 

The model had an r-squared value of 0.08518, meaning that it accounted for about 8.518% of variation in scores regarding participants' immigration policy stance (p < 2.2e-16). According to Cohen’s guide, this is an approximately medium effect size (~9%). The intercept was significant, indicating that when a participant is a natural born citizen and the natural log of experiences of discrimination score is 0 then the participant's immigration policy stance score is predicted to be 0.32320 (p < 2e-16), indicating that by default – natural born citizens without experiences of discrimination – participants did not have very conservative stances on immigration. When all else is held constant, an increase of 1 in the natural log of experiences of discrimination score is expected to produce a 0.10703 decrease in the natural log of immigration policy stance (p = 2.10e-07), meaning that in this model greater experiences of discrimination predicted less conservative immigration stances. When all else is held constant, a change from a participant being a natural born citizen to being a naturalized citizen is anticipated to produce a 0.14617 decrease in the natural log of immigration policy stance (p = 1.29e-08) and a change from a natural born citizen to being a non-citizen is anticipated to produce a 0.20107 decrease in the natural log of immigration policy stance score (< 2e-16). This means that in this model, being a naturalized citizen and being a non-citizen is predicted to produce a less conservative immigration policy stance compared to natural born citizens.

#### Analysis of Plots of Fit
The Residuals vs. Fitted showed that the residuals appeared to be more negative than positive and that there was an uneven distribution of the residuals above and below the red regression line, suggesting a deviation from the assumptions of Mean of Residuals is ~0 and Constant Variability. The Normal Q-Q suggested some deviation from the assumption that Residuals are Nearly Normal – there were light right and left tails, and a gap towards the center of the 45° line. In the Scale-Location plot, the line was not very flat and the points were not equally spread, also suggesting some deviation from the assumption of Constant Variability. The Residuals vs. Leverage plot showed no data points beyond Cook’s distance, indicating that that assumption of No Bad (high leverage) Outliers was met. As a result, no trimming and Winsorizing of the data was attempted to improve the model. Overall, however, this model had difficulty meeting the assumptions of linear regression.
